So hi. 
My name is Michal and I'm going to talk for a little while about machine translation.
Eh.
This tool or machine translation generally is very popular and accessible throughout the world thanks to the two big players like Google and Microsoft, that each has their own translator. 
So we suppose that you already know these and use them if you want to understand a text written in a language you don't speak.
But today, we would like to go one step further and show you a little trick that you can use in case you want to produce a text in a language you don't, you don't understand.
So we have a demonstration tool for that, ehm it is the only ehh link that you can find in the machine translation worksheets.
So if you if you mind going there and following that link, for whatever reason the tool is called Ptaco 5.
And once you follow that link, you should see the screen like this.
Uh. 
There are- 
Ehh, is everyone ready?
Some of you are. 
That's good.
So I suppose everybody is ready. 
Ehh, there are three important eh areas on that page.
Eh, top left is the input text.
That's where you input the input, ehh.
Top right is the output.
That's where you get the translation you are interested in.
And there is the third area that is of some interest to us, it's called "Backward Translation" on the bottom bottom left.
Eh, what does this mean.
Once again, we are trying to solve the task of writing a text in a language we do not speak.
And to do that, eh, we will use eh the machine translation twice.
First, in the direction we are interested in.
Let's say, we want to write something in to our Estonian colleagues.
So you write the text in English.
And we want to send it in Estonian.
So that's the first translation from English to Estonian.
And second step is from Estonian back to eh back to English back to the original language.
And by comparing the original input that we provided with eh the result of the two steps translation.
Uh, we can guess whether the middle step, that is the text in Estonian language we are interested in, is it OK. 
To make this more clear. 
Eh let's, let's do some very, very simple things first.
Eh, let's ask the three simple questions we have been asking today, about the report, but this time let's address them to our Estonian partners.
The questions for co convenience, are also written in the worksheet.
Eh, first of them is: "What institution did the audit?"
So I'm going to write it into the top left input area.
What institution did the audit.
Question mark, just to be just to have it nice and. OK.
So, this is supposed to be my translation in Estonian.
I'm not able to ehh to validate it.
To say whether it's correct or not, but by having the added another step translating back to English, which I can understand, 
I can see that the questions are quite similar, they are the the exact wording is not the same, but grammatically or the meaning is similar, so or the same, so I'm happy with this.
And I can conclude that this middle sentence or middle question is is correct.
Let's try another another question: "Who was audited?"
Who was audited.
OK, here we get to this exact same same wording as we as we wanted. 
So that's nice.
And let's try for the third time.
Eh, when was it finished. 
When did it end it'll a al, also also good.
So I'm happy with these simple questions.
Of course, these questions are really simple is just one sentence.
There is not much room for error.
So the second task for all of you is to play around and to try to input some larger piece of text and see whether you are able to form ehh a translation in a language you don't understand. 
Let's say in Estonian, of your input.
And uhh you do that by checking whether your input is somewhat similar to the backward translational to its translation from the Estonian back to your original language.
So, if you don't know what to write at the moment, I provided a very simple, simple email in in the worksheet, which you can used to play around with.
But otherwise, if you are full of ideas, or any if you want to write your own email.
You can do that by all means.
I'm going to use the email I've already written and try to do it here on the screen, but feel free to ignore me, if you want to play around with the tool on your own.
So, it starts dear Sir or Madam.
And I see the translation, dear Mister or Misses, which doesn't seem right to me.
So I might try to, I might try to correct eehhh try to correct the greeting at the beginning.
So let's say I find out the name of of the person am writing to, which would be ideal anyways.
So dear Mister Balin, sounds very Estonian. 
Eehh, I should be grateful if you would send us the details of your last audit related to e-government.
I would be grateful if you sent us the details of the last e-government audit. 
That sounds good to me.
And now I 'm going to check the second paragraph.
In particular, we would appreciate more information about the methodology concerning the assessment of information system solutions.
In particular, we would appreciate more information on the methodology for evaluating the solutions of the information system, almost good.
What I wouldn't be happy with is the the information system is in singular.
And this.
Em, I don't know. 
It leaves some suspicions that maybe the middle step can be corrupted somewhat.
So I would try maybe to reward to use different wording for this.
So let's try.
Concerning the assessment of of more information about the methodology concerning the assessment of s-.
Let's say just information systems, see what happens. 
Maybe the solutions work doesn't really have to be there.
Eehh. 
OK.
Here I see that there is plural already in the backward translation.
So I I think this is better.
And then I have the final uhh greeting.
If it's called greeting at the end.
I hope it is. 
Yours faithfully.
Your loyalty doesn't seem right.
So I should try something different.
Sincerely.
OK.
Sincerely.
So.
So now I made couple of modifications.
I see that the backward translation makes sense to me.
I think all the important information is there.
There is no significant error.
So I would be maybe happy to send this email to somebody is in Estonia.
OK.
So unless there are any comments or questions eheh I would give the word to another presentation, which is my colleague withe ehh what is that now?
Autolingual what is that I can't remember the name.
I am sorry. 
Yeah.
It's Ruda anyway. 
