Please come.
Let me know, welcome.
My colleagues from the UFAL, Institute of formal and applied linguistics of the Faculty of mathematics and physics Charles University, Prague.
Welcome Ondřej Dušek, Rudolf Rosa and Tomáš Musil.
They have kindly agreed to be mentors for this session, would you Kindly join me on stage.
They will introduce what they can help us with?
There is one person on Zoom, right?
Is this Ondřej, correct?
Welcome Ondřej!
As the Tomáš said, I 'm in expert in computer processing of language.
My main focus is head booked for the dialogue with the computers and memorization of language.
So perhaps I can help with the design of approach for computer learning in this area.
That would be my brief introduction, Ondřej.
And we are back in the Švandovo divadlo Theaitre.
Ondřej Dušek, Yes I am in Computer linguistics from Charles University as well.
Text analysis, text generation, using tools for translation and so on.
All these things.
Hi, I am Tomas, Tomáš Musil.
I can help with computer learning, meaning, recognition and so on.
Lovely.
Thank you to the three of you, to our mentors.
For introducing themselves.
Would you kindly take a seat?
After the brief introduction, we can go into the workshop, but about session until twelve o 'clock.
So we also invite David Košťák from the Švandovo divadlo theature and Martina Kinská, both from the theatre, both dramaturge to join us on stage.
And without further adore.
Within a few second.
We are starting with the our discussion on talent challenges.
The public zoom session were close.
And you have to now, join our Robot on slack channel.
If you do not know how to join?
<UNK> said, you will find a button which will take you directly to the link end.
From twelve o 'clock, we go talk about theatre, artificial intelligence.
Because the project that these guys is writing, an AI theatre playing.
So please do join us in our discussion with Rudolf Rosa, Tomáš Musil both from the Institute of MFU, applied linguistics of the Faculty of mathematics and physics, Charles University.
David Košťák and Martina Kinská from Švandovo divadlo theatre, and will be talking about this, theatre play.
Which is being written by men and computer.
It will be premiered here, in this treature on Feburary 26 this year.
Let start.
I will join you, and mybe a few words of introduction.
That project is a result of, perhaps a frustration.
Because the 100th anniversary of the word "Robot", which first appeared on February 25th in the National Theatre ah in Prague.
And then in <UNK>, actually before that, but that was not formal.
So 100 years anniversary of the word "Robot" being used in public has gone by largely unnoticed.
And then these colleagues and, the colleagues from the theater came up with this project, and I did not think it was complete nonsense that a computer could try to write a theater play.
Than we were joined by colleagues from DAMU.
We ask for a grant, within the program of Ithea,
The grant agency ah, Czech Republic supported this project.
And this is part of an applied of applied research in human science.
This is, ah, very actually, a unique project worldwide.
That have been some efforts that AI would help write a screenplay for a movie, maybe a poem or a story and short story.
But this really is a world 's first.
Let pass the floor to my colleagues now.
Let us do a brief touring test for you and for our audience.
Rudolf, are you on board?
So let me move to the machine.
Could you please tell us what we are doing here?
This is from Karel Čapek, R.U.R., an experts from the <UNK>.
The first robot says, "So the machines cannot work. We cannot progenerate machines, robots."
The second robot says, "We have more work, we do not know where to put other than u".
"For whom?"-Second robot.
"For the Next Generation"-first robot.
Well, we cannot generate robots. Robots only give out flesh and blood.
You cannot put blood to bones.
In the second robot-"People know the secret of life and tell us what the secret of life is."
So the machine that we will be talking about today, that generates an automatic automatic screenplace of theatres.
We put in some algorithm as a gpt2 model.
And if you are an expert in the field, and then the machine would continue in generating the text.
It picks up here, and you will see two possible continuations, first original by Karel Čapek, and the second generated by our machine.
And your town school will be, to tell us what is real and what has been real bad written by human, by Karel Čapek and in the second written by the machine.
So we now invite the audience to write us whether you believe left on the left side, right on right side.
Which one do you think is the original version and which one is machine produced.
So with a slight composition, <UNK> tell us. what, Okay, so what is the question?
What has been generated by the machine?
So now, what is the original, what has been generated by the machine?
Is it the left version, the version of the left.Right?
And and if you think that the machine generated the version in the right column.
Then in Checz, please write P, said p for the right said column.
So how is this created?
So what is these figures and mathematics, what does it mean?
And so from the very south, We were surprised and we were expecting problems, Of course.
We used GPT2 and openAI, and they generate what good quality text would be generating them in English.
So what we do?
We take a model. We prepare some initial lines, And with some luck, the model can recognize the format, and it can pick up from that.
Just with a bit of luck, it would stick to the topic.
So the text actually, the procedure is quite simple, as simple as this.
And how about David? as a person from the theater dramaturge from of  Švandovo divadlo theature.
Working here, What was your reaction?
When you were approached by our colleagues with the idea that the dialoges will be written or strictly will be written by AI.
My first thought was, Well, I was born in the wrong age. I will be soon replaced by computers.
But perhaps this can be a useful tool for authors, not only the theatre, in the theatre.
But I know it is a useful tool are for people who write computer games, for example.
I am curious, and I have a healthy mixture of curiousness, and I guess skepticism that much.
What about you?
What were your feelings?
When, I guess Rudolf came up with this idea.
Did you say, Well, thats interesting, or what? What were your first thought?
Of course, I had.
I first said, Yeah, that is interesting, Let us try this out.
And I 'm wondering how far we can go with this.
Now, the question by them  or the writer, when I am writing, when I 'm reading about this.
The consensus says.
World leading experts say that AI, although it is called intelligence, it is not intelligent, because it does not understand anything.
How can these ones and zeros make an experience of the world.
They just listen to human clicking on the button.
How can they have something meaningful to say about life and life 's experience.
Well, that is a complex question.
I guess one thing which you mentioned before when we were talking about challenges.
When you call what is intelligence and what is intelligent?
But what is intelligence, I guess the somehow the definition It's a fuzzy business.
Something we consider intelligent or smart, for example, chess playing that was considered a complex intellectual activity.
And then we realized we can crack the code, we can reproduce it, Machine learning and computers can play chess and maybe It was not such an human achievement.
So it can be done quite easily, so since, this was a milestone and this is that nobody believes it is a purely human domain domain.
Your question whether the computer can some say some has to say something meaningful.
I do not know, not quite sure. I do not know whether it can generate something that you did not put in first.
But you can have a jigsaw, We could puzzled them you know, taking some parts, re structuring them, and perhaps then we get something interesting.
Well through those systems. What about humans? Are humans intelligent?
Because we absorb a lot of things, and then we recombine them.
And then we put out something.
Is this intelligence, what is intelligent?
Eh, yeah, let me jump in.
Since the drama from the theater.
I think we can learn quite along about ourselves.
The interesting point for me is that it is free from emotion.
So it is an interesting analytical tool.
For the computer has learned a lot about us by reading our dialogues, by this text and the thing that it put forward would be based on statistics.
So this is what comes up in screenplays most, or play the text.
So very often when two characters meet they, What would happen?
When we had two characters and a computer generated screenplay, they would have a sexual intercourse.
So it was not over that love as a literary artist would have us believe, or we talk about it, but it was all really about coming down to sex.
So that is quite interesting, the neural, Neural network processes the input you feed it with.
On the other hand, here we have, moments of great drama and human life.
And well, you come up either with one or first.
So these extreme, dramatic situations which capture our attention because that is what is quite typical of the image.
Let me go back to the turing test adapted to human dialogue, theature dialogues.
We saw two columns, so what were your guess is?
So Rudolf, Could you please reveal?
Was, which one is computer generated Rudolf.
why I cannot see it properly and be happy to do so, but I do not have a good view of the screen, so let me see.
So the left column is computer generated.
Are you sure?
Did you read it well?
Did you have a good view of the screen?
Yes.
The other half of the slide had needed a moment that was not 100 % confident, but it is that the computer generates these text this on the left and side.
My slack colleagues, could you please check and let count the votes, How many of you recognized it correctly?
The touring test reveal that it is quite difficult now to identify computer generated text um from human generated sources
Now a question to all of you.
Do you think, but in the future well.
Machines helped in theature today, moving the scene, I do not know producing guess, lightning thats machines as well.
And I do not really recall and went to theater as a child.
But what about these and machines or computers.
So does light design, you know?
Can they help, can they aid theatre.
David, What you say?
I think the possibilities are there.
But one thing that ah might prevent it, is some may be self centeness the rigourism of play rights.
I 'm not quite sure that a play right would open up to the possibility of computer aiding him or hire him in the work.
So the me watching the computer makes me realize that it is the the power of the accident.
Because you as a as a human, You have a certain degree of probability, your experience, and you kind of go along the same tracks,
But the computer can easily break your logical patterns.
So we can come up with some interesting choices.
So if you are faced as an author with some with a crisis in creating something, a new writers blog where you are facing writers blog,  computer can help you maybe open up new possibilities.
And Rudolph is saying you as an author, Perhaps you can, you know.
Say, okay, that the the the play is not uh may be so intelligent.
Maybe not our fault, because maybe it wants to tell us something so it strips you out the responsibility.
You do not have to take all the responsibility as an author.
David, what it could help with is with a quantity, I 'm quite sure.
And today plays are autogenerated, something yeah, I 'm wondering whether it could be used for generation of dialogue.
Not the narration.
Turning to the audience if you have questions.
Slack the btton 2020 with the channel, feel free to ask any questions.
And will collect them. so you have five minutes to post your questions.
And we will be back in five minutes and will would respond to them, or rather our guests would respond to them.
So what about the input the stuff that you feed the network with.
That determines what comes out, right?
What you said that within the first minutes with the first screenplace you had, you had the two main characters engaging in sexual intercourse.
I read something in MIT Technology Review, or one issue that was to be debated is the bias in terms of AI. But the bias, I believe, led to an unsuccessful attempt in the U. K.
Applications, applicants for universities.
The application being reviewed by AI toolsm I know there was some, some trouble with that.
There was a bias, some other affair, treatment. So what would be your take on this?
And this much, Can we regulate this?
Can and shall a human try to rectify this?
Or shall we just leave the play field completely open and let the AI run free.
And not worry about the bias that you determined at the input.
Rudoulf- "well AI does not have anything else.
This disposal upon from the input that we feed it with, something that was created somewhere, for example, data that is provided by people, by humans.
So AI can not learn something.
It just keeps copying Ah, it just copies.
The prejudices and the bias that people feed it with.
So it is not good, a bad, it just copies and perpetuates what we put in.
So this is something that is, then it is happening.
But there is a lot of research, which does you have to make it better.
How to make it even smarter and stript of the bias.
<UNK>, We can say something about it.
I think it is quite clear.
I do not quite clear about the fact that we should try to rectify and improve the situation, But the issue is technological solutions, how to do it?
Neural network, that is the most advanced thing we have at our disposal, but it is very difficult to interpret them.
We do not know clearly, we do not know exactly what is happening to them?
How does the neural network represent the data that we provided with.
And if we decide something about say, certain human.
Some people are discriminated against, a group of people that is a pattern which will be rewritten transmitted into the network.
And you can then clearly see it and you see that.
This, if this group of people does not, ah, make it to the university, and there are not chosen and submitted to the university.
Maybe you can write a rectified bit, some quota or a somewhat probability some setup.
How to get rid of this that is a difficult issue.
It is not as easy that you say, Okay, so we see that there is this problem.
I will just not feed in this data, which created the bias.
Because the data is correlated, It is a living organism.
And we see in research that when you take, for example, CV's, which they tried to analyze automatically, and you would delete.
Ah, for example, a race identifiedus, still the data would be compromised and the bias would come in there.
How to do this?
How to manipulate the data.
Well, this that is a very interesting question to find it, but perhaps will provide us with some hack that will allow artificial intelligence to be prejudice freely, bias free .
Those which we have as these living box of the flesh and blood, as Karel Čapek was describing it in his dailog, that we introduced at the beginning.
Before we take the questions by the audience, let me now ask David. David, said at the beginning, then he will start rehersals on Mondays on this coming Monday.
You saw the screenplay already.
Oh, so how <UNK>?
What would it be like even for actors to deliver the lines which were not written by a human being, but by a computer.
First of all, I think it will be more difficult to learn.
Because there is not always a logical coherence in those sentences.
And one thing which is quite unique and specific to computer and the ethics, is that the computer is somewhat like a child.
Or it is autistic because it does not take into account with what is being said is not true.
It cannot fathom this option.
So in terms of interpretation of the text.
I guess we would try to bring in this intrigue or with this or falsehood these things.
If we had to interpret it somehow into the fix, because what is very often the most interesting thing about the text is that you say something, but actually you mean something different and how to put this meaning in, that will be a challenge.
Okay, let me now keep the questions.
I do not see any question by the audience.
By are virtual audience, nope.
You have nine more minutes.
We are here for you and our guest <unk> members, not all of them.
We have ah other members from the Mathematicians, sign linguish, who else is there?
David, representing the world of theater and others.
I have one more question which has to do with the creative process and with how things work in the theater.
I 'm wondering whether the play in itself, let us say you have the name uh with the whole structure, some nodes.
And the dialogues is all of this created by AI or a what does the cooperation look like between the human and the computer in display that will be premiered within a month on February 26th.
My guess, human participation will not be more than ten percent as A dramture, but it would be the same with even a a human generative play, because the play is then structured into several themes and dialogues.
And my input would be, for example, one comment at the beginning.
Introducing the set and the and the and the, and thes dilogue and the rest would be the dilogue to be produced by the computer by AI, and then we would stop it, or somehow directed at certain moments where it continued creeping or not.
So that would be a similar approach in my work, so that is not so different.
One difference is that the AI software at the cut on stage can not really give you an arch and overarching story.
So the final screenplay actually puts together the pieces of computer generated dialogue.
So it could only create short pieces of dialogue, which we then put into sequence.
So we would treat the computer as an author, which is very compliant.
And if we senses something that would just fall out of the play.
I do not know another thing.
There are things where AI can generate something and its contribution is ten percent, 25 percent and well, we have had project like this, that is no longer interesting.
Let us really uh take on AI on board fully.
And we really wanted to keep our input to the minimum.
So what governor is saying is very similar, his cuts into the text, or his involvement with the Texas, very similar as he would have with a human play write.
So although the air project we have currently does not creative of rotting or a very long in air sequence.
We continued with developing the tool that we have.
So we would perhaps first have a structure and overarching design plot, and then create individual dialogues.
And maybe the decision process would be later also transferred to the machine.
Fine.
Should you have questions now is your last chance to ask questions of the slack. and within five minutes will be starting to to individual topics.
An artificial creative intelligence will be discussed in detail.
If here interested in the theatre project.
It will premiere in the Shandov Envelope Theatre on February 26 at 7 PM, and it will be screened LIVE.
Go to THEAITRE.com
Most cordially welcome.
This will be the world 's first global premier.
From what we go from what we know.
No computer generated play full length as ever being created or rehersed and performed in a theater.
There would be a discussion after the play jointly here with her colleagues.
And I believe it will be a unique opportunity to look at where computer generated creativity is at the moment, um?
And it is cooperation also with human creativity.
And I 'm sure it will make for an interesting evening.
Since there are no questions from the audience.
Let me send my thanks to our guests Rudolf,Tomáš, and David.
Thanks for these 30 minutes talking about AI and theatre and the creative process.
Let us now go into the teaser part, which hopefully will make you want to attend the event on February 26th.
