Annual accounts for 2017
(Together with audit report)
PUBLIC AUDIT REPORT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS OF THE BARCELONA CITY COUNCIL OF RELATED YEAR 20171
To the Municipal Council of the Barcelona City,
I.	Introduction
We have audited the accompanying annual accounts of the Barcelona City Council, in order to the standards of Public Sector, which comprise the balance sheet as at December 31, 2017, the income statement, the statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement, the budget implementation statement and the notes thereto for the year then ended.
This audit has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of section 58.e) and 74 of Law 1/2006, of 13 March 2006, regulating the special regime of the municipality of Barcelona, and the stipulations of the administrative clauses and technical specifications of the contract for the provision of audit services for the individual and consolidated annual accounts of the Barcelona City Council and its municipal economic Group.
The municipal manager is responsible for the preparation of these annual accounts in accordance with the criteria for financial reporting described in note 3.1 of the accompanying notes and, specifically, with the conceptual framework of public accounting and recognition and valuation rules includes on the Order HAP/1781/2013, of 20th September, by which the Instruction of the normal model of the local accounting is approved.
The annual accounts which this report refers to have been prepared by the manager on 23 May 2018.
II.	Purpose and scope of the work: Auditor's responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the accompanying annual accounts of the Barcelona City Council give a true and fair view based on the work that we have carried out in accordance with the auditing standards of the public sector, as well as the results of the operations reflected in the economic-equity income statement and in the budget settlement, and of the resources obtained and applied during the year, and contain the information necessary for its interpretation and adequate understanding.
1 This report is a translation of the Barcelona City Council public audit report un the annual accounts for the year ended on December 31st, 2017 which is issued in Catalan in May 30th, 2018. Any opinion must be referred to the abovementioned Catalan audit report version. Only the audit report issued in Catalan is authentic, and is accompanied by the annual accounts.
In view of the limiting nature of the entity's expenditure budget the objective of the audit includes verification of compliance in the most significant aspects of the budgetary rules in particular compliance with the quantitative, qualitative and temporal limits of budgetary rules and those related to budget modifications.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain a reasonable assurance, but not absolute, about whether the annual accounts are free from material misstatement.
An audit requires performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and information in the annual accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to entity's preparation of annual accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
III.	Audit opinion
In our opinion, the accompanying annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, of the equity and financial position of the Barcelona City Council at December 31, 2017 and the results of its operations, cash flows and budget settlement statement for the year then ended, in accordance with applicable regulatory framework for financial information and with the budgetary regulations applicable and, specifically, the conceptual framework of public accounting and the recognition and valuation rules contained therein.
ERNST & YOUNG, S.L.
Alejandro Martínez Gómez
May 30, 2018
1 This report is a translation of the Barcelona City Council public audit report un the annual accounts for the year ended on December 31st, 2017 which is issued in Catalan in May 30th, 2018. Any opinion must be referred to the abovementioned Catalan audit report version. Only the audit report issued in Catalan is authentic, and is accompanied by the annual accounts.
Balance sheet as of 31 December 2017 (amounts in euros)
Balance sheet as of 31 December 2017 (amounts in euros)
Income and expenditure account as of 31 December 2017 (amounts in euros)
Statement of changes in net equity (amounts in euros)
1. Total statement of changes in net equity
2.	Statement of recognised income and expenditure
Cash-flow statement (amounts in euros)
Budget implementation statement (amounts in euros)
1. Expenditure budget implementation
2. Income budget settlement
Budget implementation statement (amounts in euros)
3.	Budgetary results for 2017
ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR
1.	Organisation and activity
1.1.	Official population and socio-economic data
Barcelona, which covers an area of 101.35 km2, is the capital of Catalonia and the second largest city in Spain in population terms. The official number of city residents on 1 January 2017 was 1,620,809, according to data published by the National Institute of Statistics, representing an increase of 0.7% on the previous year. There are 166 nationalities in that total and the number of registered foreign residents on 1 January 2017 came to 288,675. Barcelona is part of the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, Barcelonés County Council and Barcelona Provincial Council.
The city's economy is essentially tertiary. According to the latest data published on Barcelona's GNP, that sector represents 89.6% of the gross added value (15 percentage points above the Catalan figures), to the detriment of industry (7.4%), construction (2.9%) and the primary sector (0.1%). As regards the sectoral distribution of actively employed people registered with Social Security, on 31 December 2017 the percentage of workers employed in each sector was 90% in social services; 6.9% in industry; 3% in construction and the remaining 0.1% in agriculture, livestock and fisheries.
The following table shows the main economic activity indicators for Barcelona and its metropolitan area for 2017.
1.2.	Description of the main sources of revenue
The main sources of revenue for both Barcelona City Council and the other local
authorities are regulated by Spanish Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, approving the consolidated text of the Regulatory Act on Local Tax Offices (Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 (LHRL). The details of Barcelona City Council's main
day-to-day management income for 2017 were as follows:
1.3.	City Council's Tax Treatment
a)	Corporation Tax
Barcelona City is exempt from corporation tax and its capital furniture gains are not subject to deduction, under Act 27/2014, of 27 November, on Corporation Tax
b)	Value Added Tax (VAT)
For the purposes of VAT, the City Council carries out transactions that are either subject to this tax (business activities) or not (public activities). As regards the VAT deduction system, it has opted for the special pro rata basis.
1.4.	Basic organisational, political and administrative structure
Barcelona City Council's basic organisational, political and administrative structure is as follows:
1.4.1.	Political organisation
Municipal elections are held every four years, under a proportional representation system. As a result of the last elections, held on 24 May 2015, the current composition of the Municipal Council is as follows:
On 31 December 2017, the 11 Barcelona en Comú councillors formed the municipal government. The agreement with the Partit dels Socialistes de Catalunya -Candidatura de Progrés, which was signed in May 2017 and led to four Partit dels Socialistes de Catalunya - Candidatura de Progrés councillors joining the municipal government, was terminated in November 2017.
The political area is made up of the various government, city and territorial bodies. The political structure is as follows:
1.4.2.	Administrative organisation
Barcelona City Council's administrative or executive organisation, which is run and coordinated by the municipal manager, is made up, on the one hand, of sectors and districts, which are divisions and bodies integrated into the City Council's single legal personality, run by managers appointed by the Mayor. On the other hand, we have local independent bodies, public business entities and trading companies, which have their own separate legal personalities but are functionally dependent on their sectors of activity.
This managerial structure is tasked not just with ensuring the services provided by Barcelona City Council are effective and efficient and meet the city's values and needs, but also with seeing to the planning, organisation and provision of public services, to make sure the goals set out under the Municipal Action Plan are achieved.
The following organisation chart shows Barcelona City Council's administrative structure:
1.5.	Average number of employees during the financial year and on 31
December, both civil servants and externally contracted staff, according to category and sex
1.5.1.	Average number of employees during 2017
1.5.2.	Number of employees on 31/12/2017
1.6.	Entities of the group, multi-group and associate bodies
1.6.1.	Group entities
1.6.2.	Multi-group entities
a)	Entities that are consolidated with the City Council
b)	Entities excluded from municipal consolidation
1.6.3.	Associated entities
2.	Indirect management of public services, agreements and other forms of collaboration
The powers and services provided by the City Council are as follows:
a)	Mandatory services:
The City Council provides the following mandatory services: public lighting, cemeteries, urban environment, waste collection, waste treatment, street cleaning, household supply of drinking water, sewers, access to city centres, road surfacing, public parks, public libraries, civil protection, assessing and providing information on situations of social need and immediate care for people in situations of social risk, preventing and extinguishing fires, public sports facilities and urban public passenger transport.
b)	Voluntary services:
The supplementary services provided by the City Council include the following: nursery schools, vehicle parking, promotion of culture and cultural facilities, work promotion services, etc.
Most of these services are provided directly by the City Council and others
through its subsidiary organisations.
As for indirect management of public services, the most important contracts are: • Household supply of drinking water.
• Waste water disposal and treatment.
• Underground vehicle parking.
• Public passenger transport.
The Barcelona Metropolitan Area (AMB), as the Local Entity, is responsible
for supplying household water to the city of Barcelona, as set out in Spanish
Legislative Decree 3/2003 of 4 November. The AMB provides that service through a semi-public company called Aigües de Barcelona, Empresa Metropolitana de Gestió del Cicle Integral de l'Aigua SA, made up by Aigües de Barcelona (70%); Criteria (15%) and the AMB (15%). The company uses the municipally owned assets allocated to the service when it was incorporated.
Barcelona's disposal and treatment of waste water falls under the jurisdiction of
the Barcelona Metropolitan Area as the Local Entity and established as such under
Legislative Decree 3/2003 of 4 November. The AMB provides that service through a semi-public company called Aigües de Barcelona, Empresa Metropolitana de Gestió del Cicle Integral de l'Aigua SA, made up by Aigües de Barcelona (70%); Criteria (15%) and the AMB (15%). The company uses the municipally owned assets allocated to the service when it was incorporated.
The vehicle parking service is managed directly for street-level parking and
indirectly for underground parking.
Underground parking spaces and, more specifically, those located in Barcelona's
city centre (central perimeter), are managed indirectly through a mixed-
economy company in the form of a public limited company (SA) called Barcelona d'Aparcaments Municipals, SA (BAMSA), owned by Saba Car Park, SL (60%) and BSM (40%). The company was incorporated for a 25-year period and uses the
municipally owned assets allocated to the service at the time of its incorporation.
The public passenger transport service is managed by the Metropolitan Transport Authority (ATM), which was created as a voluntary inter-administrative consortium and set up in the 1997 financial year. The consortium is made up of the following
authorities: the Generalitat [regional government] of Catalonia (51 %) and local
authorities (49%), the latter consisting of Barcelona City Council, the Barcelona
Metropolitan Area (AMB) and the Association of Municipalities for Mobility and
Urban Transport (AMTU). The contributions made to this consortium by the City
Council during the 2017 financial year under the ATM's four-year plan (2014-2017) came to €136.67 million.
3.	Bases of presentation of the accounts
3.1.	A true and accurate picture
These annual accounts have been obtained from the Municipal Corporation's
accounting records as of 31 December 2017 and are presented under current
accounting provisions legally in force, for the purposes of showing a true and
accurate picture of the equity and the financial situation on the date mentioned
herein, of the income and expenditure, of the statement of changes in net equity, of the cash flow, of the results of the implementation of the budget, for the financial year ending on that date, which are expressed in euros.
These annual accounts will be part of Barcelona City Council's General Accounts,
which will be submitted for approval at the Full Municipal Council Meeting within
the legal deadlines established. The budget settlement was approved by Mayoral
Decree on 28 February 2018.
The City Council's accounting system is the one provided for under the Act on
Local Tax Offices for local entities and their independent bodies. The annual
accounts for the 2017 financial year were prepared in accordance with Order
HAP/1781/2013 of 20 September, approving the Guidelines of the Local Standard
Accounting Model (henceforth the IMNCL), and with the provisions set out in
the General Public Accounting Plan adapted for Local Authorities (PGCPAL)
accompanying the IMNCL.
The following current legislation has also been taken into account:
• Act 7/1985 of 2 April, regulating local government.
• Royal Decree Law 781/1986 of 18 April, approving the consolidated text of
current provisions on local government.
• Legislative Decree 2/2003 of 28 April, approving the consolidated text of the
Municipal and Local Government Act of Catalonia.
• Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004 of 5 March, approving the consolidated text
of the regulatory Act on Local Tax Offices (Act 39/1988 of 28 December).
• Royal Decree 500/1990 of 20 April, developing Chapter I of Title VI of Act 39/1998 of 28 December, regulating budgets in local tax offices.
• Documents on accounting principles issued by the Commission on Public Account Principles and Standards, created by Ministerial Order by the Secretary of State for Treasury on 28 December 1990.
• Order of 27 April 2007 on the implementation of Decree 94/1995 of 21 February, as amended by ministerial decrees ECF/2901/2008, ECF/1769/2009, ECF/3210/2010, ECO/1406/2011, ECO/2829/2012 and ECO/2876/2014 on the
financial supervision of local entities.
• Act 15/2010 of 5 July, on the amendment of Act 3/2004 of 29 December, establishing measures against arrears in commercial transactions.
• Framework Act 2/2012 of 27 April, on budget stability and financial sustainability, with amendments introduced by Framework Act 9/2013 of 20 December, on controlling commercial debt in the public sector.
• Framework Act 9/2013 of 20 December, on controlling commercial debt in the public sector.
• Act 27/2013 of 27 December, on the rationalisation and sustainability of local authorities.
Furthermore, the Barcelona Municipal Charter, which was approved by Act 1/2006 of 13 March, regulates, among other things, municipal powers, the organisation of the Municipal Government, the districts, the organisation of the municipal
executive and public participation.
The accounting principles and criteria applied are heavily influenced by
consideration of the importance they and their effects may have in relative terms.
As a result, they do not need to be strictly applied, provided that the relative
quantitative or qualitative importance of the variation recorded is hardly significant and does not therefore affect the true and accurate picture of the net equity situation and the income and expenditure. Entries and amounts whose relative importance is scarcely significant may appear grouped together with others of a similar nature or function.
There are no exceptional reasons, for the purposes of achieving the above goals,
for current accounting provisions legally in force not to have been applied.
The City Council prepares consolidated annual accounts that include the accounts of the City Council, the group's entities (local independent bodies, publicly owned business entities and subsidiary trading companies), multi-group entities and
associated entities.
3.2.	Comparison of the information
The annual accounts for the financial years 2017 and 2016 were drawn up in
accordance with the framework established under the IMNCL, and prepared under uniform valuation, grouping, classification and monetary-unit criteria. As a result, the information presented is homogeneous and comparable.
3.3.	Reasons for and effects on the annual accounts of changes in
accounting criteria and error corrections
There were no changes to the accounting criteria in the previous financial year nor were any errors identified that had to be corrected.
3.4.	Information on changes in accounting estimates where these are
significant
There were no significant changes to the accounting estimates.
4.	Recognition and valuation regulations
The most important accounting criteria applied in the preparation of the annual accounts were as follows:
4.1.	Tangible fixed assets
Capitalisation Criteria
These are tangible assets, movable and immovable property which:
• The City Council possesses for its own use in the production or supply of
goods and services or for its own administrative purposes.
• These are expected to have a useful life of over a year.
Initial valuation
Investments in tangible fixed assets are valued at cost. This is the “acquisition
price”, which includes the non-recoverable indirect taxes associated with the
purchase, the acquisition costs directly relating to the purchase and, where
necessary, the costs for putting the acquisition into service.
Assets that appear as a result of a physical inventory taking are entered under
their fair value where it was not possible to obtain evidence of their original cost.
Received assets allocated for a period equal to or in excess of their economic life
are entered under their net accounting value on their formal allocation.
Additions from before 1 January 1992 are valued according to an expert estimate
of their real market value carried out by an independent valuation company. For
historical and artistic properties, the valuation includes their replacement value.
Capitalisation of financial expenditure
Financial expenditure is not incorporated in the tangible fixed assets' costs.
Subsequent valuation
Tangible fixed asset elements are generally valued at cost, plus subsequent
payments, less accumulated depreciation and valuation adjustments for impairment.
Assets subject to depreciation are reviewed where some event or change in
circumstances may involve their accounting value becoming non-recoverable.
Valuation adjustments for impairment are made when the asset's recoverable
amount is below its net depreciation value, and that generally occurs because
of physical impairment, obsolescence or a reduction in the initially expected
performance. Assets that have suffered an impairment loss are regularly reviewed for possible reversals of impairment losses.
Extension, modernisation or improvement costs are capitalised as an increase in
asset value where they increase its capacity or productivity or extend its useful life.
Costs for major repairs, inspections or major restorations are capitalised and
depreciated over their useful lives.
The City Council does not usually use its own staff to carry out work that is subject to capitalisation.
Where the ownership or use of a property requires the site's dismantling and
restoration, these costs are capitalised and depreciated over the period that the
property's financial returns or service potential is expected to be obtained.
Indications of impairment were evaluated at the close of the financial year for
elements of fixed assets bringing in future financial revenue, taking the following circumstances into account:
• There were no significant changes to the technological or legal environment during the financial year or which were expected to occur in the short term and which would have a negative impact on the City Council.
• There were no significant reductions in the market value of assets.
• There are no obsolete assets or assets that are physically impaired in any
significant way.
• There were no significant changes to the way in which the assets were used during the financial year that had a negative impact on the City Council.
• There was no evidence to support the view that the assets' financial performance was significantly below that which was expected.
Depreciation
The elements that make up the tangible fixed assets, with the exception of
the land, are subject to systematic depreciation using the straight-line method
according to the estimated useful life of each. By default, each element's
depreciable basis matches its book value, given that the residual values are
deemed to be null. The depreciation process starts when the asset is put into
operation, with the estimated useful years of life being as follows:
The economic depreciation process began in the 1992 financial year. The estimated years of useful life corresponding to “Buildings” were set out under the criteria established by the above-mentioned independent valuation.
With regard to historical and artistic properties, depreciation was calculated on
the basis of the cost of a replacement of the fixed asset that would reproduce its
capacity and utility. Its depreciation base therefore excluded the book value part
that corresponded to the historical and artistic component of the building, which
rose to €221,573,000 during the 2017 financial year, all on the basis of the above-
mentioned independent valuation. This treatment was justified by the fact that the above-mentioned historical and artistic component was subject to maintenance to ensure the long-term duration of its value.
4.2.	Public Land Assets
Public Land Assets (PLA) refers to the group of assets that were allocated, under
Legislative Decree 1/2005 of 26 July, approving the consolidated text of the Act on Urban Planning in Catalonia, and under the Barcelona Municipal Charter, for social-interest purposes established by law.
The municipally owned properties which fall under this item are as follows:
• Properties allocated for social housing, managed by the City Council itself or by municipal operators.
• Properties over which surface rights were awarded in favour of third parties, to build social housing, residences for elderly people, care centres and other social investments.
• Properties on which investment projects were being carried out, which, once completed, would enable their allocation to social housing and other social-interest initiatives.
As regards the 100 x 1000 Plan, the budget commitments implemented by this
plan are treated as capital transfers, effecting the way they are recorded in the
profit and loss statement.
Transactions associated with this plan therefore have a neutral effect on the profit and loss statement, the receipt of assets linked to the plan and their entry in the municipal inventory is recorded as a gain from public ownership of the land.
The valuation and depreciation criteria for the various types of assets are
described in Note 4.1.
4.3.	Property investments
These are properties (land or buildings) that are held for profit or capital gain or
both, through their rents or alienation, without any of these being a purpose of the City Council. And, in any event, all those that may not be considered fixed assets. The tangible fixed asset valuation criteria described in Note 4.1 apply to these
investments.
4.4.	Intangible fixed assets
Capitalisation Criteria
These are intangible assets and rights that can be financially valued as non-
monetary assets without physical substance which are identifiable by satisfying
the characteristics of continuity over time and use in the production of goods and services or constituting a source of the City Council's resources. In other words:
• They are separable and capable of disposal, assignment, renting, exchange and delivery for their exploitation.
• They arise from contractual and other legal rights, regardless of whether such rights are assignable or separable from other rights and obligations.
Initial valuation
Investments in intangible fixed assets are valued at cost. This is the “acquisition
price”, which includes the non-recoverable indirect taxes associated with the
purchase, the acquisition costs directly relating to the purchase and, where
necessary, putting the acquisition into service, or the “production costs” resulting
from actual work.
Subsequent valuation
They are generally valued at cost, plus subsequent payments, less accumulated
depreciation and valuation adjustments for impairment.
Valuation adjustments for impairment are made when the asset's recoverable
amount is below its net depreciation value and that generally occurs because of
rapid obsolescence or reduction in the initially expected performance.
Extension, modernisation or improvement costs are capitalised as an increase in
asset value where they increase its capacity or productivity or extend its useful life.
Depreciation
The elements that make up intangible fixed assets will be subject to systematic
depreciation using the straight-line method according to the estimated useful life
of each. By default, each element's depreciable basis matches its book value, given that the residual values are deemed to be null. The depreciation process starts when the asset is put into service, with the estimated useful years of life being as follows:
4.5.	Leases
The City Council does not have any assets at its disposal acquired through financial leasing.
4.6.	Asset exchanges
The City Council does not usually carry out asset exchange transactions during
the normal course of its activities. Where these do take place, their book value and inclusion in the accounts must meet the provisions set down in Section 4(d) of the IMNCL's rules for recording and valuing tangible fixed assets.
4.7.	Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities come from financial instruments, which are contracts
that establish a right for one of the parties (financial asset) and an obligation (financial liability) or a component of net equity (equity instrument) for the other party.
They are basically classified, valued and entered into the accounts according to the purpose for which they are maintained or for which they were issued.
4.7.1.	Financial assets
Financial assets consist of money in cash, capital or net equity instruments of
another entity and the rights to receive cash or other financial assets from a third
party or to exchange financial assets or liabilities with a third party in conditions
that are potentially favourable for the City Council.
Financial assets are classed, for valuation purposes, under:
a)	Credit and receivables
They include:
• Credit for transactions arising from usual activities.
• Other financial assets that generate cash flows of a specified amount and
regarding which all expenditure is expected to be recovered, except for reasons attributable to credit impairment.
As a general rule, short-term credit and receivables are valued, on both initial and subsequent entering into the accounts, according to their nominal value, except where these incorporate a contractual interest. The same valuation is
made with long-term credit and receivables where the effect of updating the flows is not significant. Otherwise, they are valued according to their fair value and subsequently at depreciated cost, by entering into the accounts the accrued interest according to its effective interest rate as the financial year's income.
Any guarantees and deposits made are always valued according to delivered value.
b)	Financial assets available for sale
This includes financial assets that do not meet the requirements for inclusion in any of the previous categories. They are always valued at fair value and any changes that occur in them are entered in the accounts as net equity up to
their disposal or impairment.
c)	Investments in the equity of the entities of the group, multi-group and associates
This includes financial assets corresponding to the entities of the group, multi-group and associates under the definition of the standards for drawing up consolidated accounts in the public sector as approved under Order
HAP/1489/2013 of 18 July.
Shareholdings in trading and associated companies were initially valued at cost, corresponding to the fair value of the consideration delivered plus the transaction costs directly attributable to it.
Shareholdings in other entities of the group, multi-group and associates were initially valued under Rule 18, section 4, and Rule 19 of the General Accounting Plan for Local Authorities (PGCAL), as well as the notes or particular
aspects issued by the National State Authority (IGAE) on the accounting commencement of the 2015 financial year (Section V.9), and more specifically:
• The value of the contributions made as assets assigned from local entities to their subsidiary or linked public organisations for a value corresponding to that of the assets at the time of assignment.
• The value of the contributions made as assets assigned from local entities to subsidiary or linked private organisations for a value corresponding to that of the assets handed over at the time of assignment.
• The value of the initial direct capital contributions as well as subsequent increases for the assumption of new powers from the linked entities.
Notwithstanding the investments in the next month of entities in the public administration sector made prior to the entry into force of the IMNCL 2013, are valued according to the value of assets assigned by municipal bodies to those entities as of 31/12/2014 and more specifically:
• Picasso Museum Foundation: € 64,661,258.83 • PAMEM: € 2,267,581.04
• Mar Parc Salut Barcelona Consortium: € 117,549,677.81 • Teatre Lliure Foundation: € 2,616,943.05 • Parc d'Atraccions Tibidabo, SA € 22,847,837.14 • Mies Van der Rohe Foundation: € 5,929,585.42
The subsequent valuation of the financial assets corresponding to the entities of the group, multi-group and associates was made at initial cost, less, where appropriate, the accumulated amount of the valuation adjustments for
impairment.
Recognition
Financial assets are entered in the accounts on the date established in the contract or agreement on which basis the City Council acquires the right. As a general
rule, the costs of the transactions are allocated to the financial year's profit (loss), except where their scale makes it advisable to incorporate them into the value of the financial asset. They are classed as fixed or current respectively, depending on whether they mature in over or under one year.
Impairment
In the case of credit and other receivables, at least at the close of the financial
year, the appropriate revisions are carried out to detect the need for making
valuation adjustments for impairment, in the event there is objective evidence that the amounts entered in the accounts will not be received in their entirety and it is advisable to revert them where they are no longer appropriate. Both the value adjustments and the reversals are recognised in the Income and Expenditure
Account.
The impairment of tax receivables is calculated by applying ratios on how collectable receivables are, calculated according to real historical series, on the settlement made individually for each of the tax figures and in each specific financial year.
As a general rule, neither receivables for subsidies awarded by public bodies nor
receivables guaranteed in the corresponding percentages are subject to impairment.
Where the equity instruments originate from capital fund contributions, the
recoverable amount is used to determine the amount of the adjustment value,
that being understood as the larger amount between the fair value less the sale
expenditure and the current value of the cash flows derived from the investment.
For want of better evidence of the recoverable value, account has been taken, in
estimating the impairment of these investments, of the net equity of the subsidiary
entity corrected for the adjusted changes for the unrealised capital gain on their
valuation date.
Both the above-mentioned valuation adjustments for impairment and their reversal
are entered in the accounts as an expense or an income, respectively, in the financial year's results.
Write-offs of financial assets
A financial asset is wholly or partly written off in the accounts where it has expired or the rights over the cash flows it generates and the risks and advantages inherent in its ownership have been substantially assigned.
4.7.2.	Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are classed under the category of financial liabilities at
depreciated cost. They include:
• Debt and accounts payable for transactions arising from usual activities.
• Debts with credit institutions.
• Debt represented in negotiated securities issued.
• Other debt and accounts payable.
As a general rule, short-term debt and accounts payable without contractual
interest are valued, on both initial and subsequent entering into the accounts,
according to their nominal value. The same valuation is made with long-term debt and accounts payable and long-term loans received with subsidised interest where the overall effect of not updating the flows is not significant. Where it is significant, they are initially valued at the current value of the cash flows payable, at a rate
equivalent to that which applies for deferred payments and, subsequently, at
depreciated cost, and the accrued interest is entered in the books according to its effective rate as income for the financial year. In any case, guarantees and deposits received are always valued according to received value.
Recognition
The financial liabilities are entered in the accounts on the date established in the contract or agreement on which basis the City Council incurs the obligation. In liquid asset transactions entered into with credit policies, debentures are incurred with the receipt of the successive liquid fund assets. They are classed as fixed or current respectively, depending on whether they mature in over or under one year.
Financial liability write-offs
As a general rule, a financial liability is wholly or partly written off when the
obligation incurred has been satisfied or cancelled. Where there is a difference
between the accounting value and the consideration delivered, this is recorded in the Income and Expenditure Account for the financial year in which it takes place.
4.7.3.	Financial guarantee contracts
These are contracts that put the City Council under an obligation to make or
receive specific payments to reimburse a third party for any loss incurred where a (“guaranteed”) debtor fails to meet its payment obligations generally arising from debt instruments such as a loan guarantee.
The City Council had not entered into any financial guarantee contracts.
4.8.	Accounting hedges
These are valued under the same criteria as hedged items, i.e. at depreciated cost. Currently, the City Council has exclusively covered interest hedging transactions.
4.9.	Inventories
The City Council has no assets regarded as inventories.
4.10.	Assets constructed or acquired for other entities
The City Council has no assets constructed or acquired for other entities.
4.11.	Transactions in foreign currency
Transactions in a currency other than the euro are entered in the accounts as soon as they are recognised in euros, by applying the rate of exchange in the existing cash to the corresponding amount on the date of the transaction.
4.12.	Income and expenditure
Income and expenditure are entered in the accounts according to the accrual
principle and, where appropriate, the correlation principle between both.
As regards the budget, income and expenditure are incorporated into the budget settlement when the administrative procedure is produced, acknowledging the respective rights and debentures.
4.12.1.	Income
a)	Income and consideration
As a general rule, income is entered in the accounts according to the fair value
of the consideration and represents the receivables for goods delivered and
services provided during the ordinary course of the City Council's activities, less
repayments, write-offs, discounts and VAT, where appropriate.
The City Council recognises income when its amount can be reliably valued: it is
probable that the City Council will receive the future financial gain and that the
specific conditions for each of the activities, as detailed below, will be met.
Income from sales is registered when: the City Council has transferred to the
purchaser the risks and benefits derived from the ownership of the goods,
irrespective of ownership; it does not reserve for itself any involvement in the
current management of the goods sold, nor does it retain effective control over
them; and the expenditure associated with the transaction can be reliably measured.
Income for the provision of services is recorded when the results of the transaction can be reliably estimated, by considering the degree of progress or performance of the provision on the date of the annual accounts or under the straight-line
method where the service is provided during a specific period.
Where the results cannot be reliably estimated, the income is entered in the
accounts according to the total expenditure recognised that is deemed recoverable.
b)	Income without consideration
In the case of taxes, income is entered in the accounts, as is the asset, when the
taxable transaction takes place and the asset's recognition criteria are satisfied.
As for fines and penalties, these are entered in the accounts when the right to
receive them arises.
In the case of fines, the right to collect is recognised as soon as the enforcement
of the act is established.
4.12.2.	Expenditure
Staff and other ordinary management expenses are entered in the Income and
Expenditure Account when the obligation falls due, irrespective of when the
current monetary expense that comes from it is incurred.
4.13.	Provisions and contingencies
A provision is entered in the accounts where the City Council has a present (legal, contractual or implied) obligation resulting from a past event which will probably involve the delivery of resources that can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued according to the current value of the payments expected to be necessary for settling the obligation, updated to a rate of discount equivalent to the type of public debt for an analogous maturity. Adjustments to provisions for the purposes of their updating are entered in the accounts as a financial expense as they are reported. Where the maturity is under or equal to one year and the
financial effect is not significant they are not discounted.
Provisions or contingencies arising from claims, procedures, lawsuits or litigation,
or that have had a ruling or been settled in the tax year, are not recorded if
their estimated amount is fully covered by current insurance policies or similar
instruments,
Provisions are subject to review and adjusted, where necessary, at the close of the financial year, to reflect the best existing estimate at the time. Where they are no longer relevant or probable, they are then reverted under a balancing entry in the financial year's corresponding income account.
For the purposes of quantifying the provisions, reference is made to internal and external expert reports and to the City Council's experience in similar matters, which enable a basis to be established for the estimates of each of the possible outcomes, as well as their financial effects.
As regards consortia, the existing risk is recorded, according to the City Council's share, in the organisations that have a negative net equity.
4.14.	Transfers and subsidies
4.14.1.	Transfers and subsidies received
Refundable subsidies are entered in the accounts as liabilities until they meet the
conditions for consideration as non-refundable, whereas non-refundable subsidies are recorded as income allocated to net equity and are entered in the accounts as income on a systematic and rational basis that correlates to subsidy-derived expenditure.
For these purposes, a subsidy is deemed non-refundable where there is a customised agreement for granting it and where all the conditions established for granting it have been met and there are no reasonable doubts that it will be received.
Monetary subsidiaries are valued according to the fair value of the referred amount granted when entered in the accounts.
Non-refundable grants relating to the purchase of tangible fixed assets are
allocated as income for the financial year in proportion to the depreciation of
the corresponding assets or, where appropriate, where there is a sale, valuation
adjustment for impairment or a shortfall in the balance sheet.
On the other hand, non-refundable subsidies relating to specific expenditure are
entered in the Income and Expenditure Account in the same financial year that the payment for the corresponding expenditure falls due.
At the close of the financial year, there are considered to be no reasonable doubts regarding compliance with the conditions and requirements associated with the subsidies received. They are thus considered to be non-returnable and directly recorded as income in net equity.
4.14.2.	Transfers and subsidies granted
Authorised transfers and subsidies are entered in the accounts as expenditure as
soon as it is recorded that the conditions established for their receipt have been
met. Where one of the conditions established for their receipt is yet to be met
at the close of the financial year, but there is no reasonable doubt as to future
compliance, a provision for the corresponding amounts is given, for the purposes
of reflecting expenditure.
4.15.	Joint activity
The City Council has not carried out any joint activity during the financial year.
4.16.	Assets under sale
The City Council has no assets under sale.
5.	Tangible fixed assets
5.1.	Movements during the financial year.
5.2.	Financial year information
The most important investments in the financial year correspond to:
At the close of the financial year, the acquisition cost of the goods that were fully depreciated and which remained in use amounted to €317,017,233.10.
The period of useful life for immovable property starts from the month following the one in which the asset's operational status is registered in the system; as for movable property and infrastructure, it starts the following year.
Extension, modernisation and improvement costs are added to the accounting
value at their conclusion. These costs are depreciated for the remaining years of depreciation of the main element.
The financial year 2017 saw no large-scale repairs or general inspections and no decommissioning of any asset or site restoration; no costs were capitalised for work carried out by the City Council for its immovable property.
5.3.	Circumstances that affect tangible fixed asset ownership
There is no restriction on the ownership of the goods that make up the City
Council's tangible fixed assets and none of these assets is subject to litigation or has been pledged as a guarantee for debt payments.
5.4.	Infrastructures
The breakdown of the infrastructure costs item are as follows:
5.5.	Other substantive circumstances
During the course of the 2017 financial year, the Government Commission agreed to acquire eight estates for a total of €48,040,206.55.
As a result of circumstances involved in the various transactions, the legal
conveyances of the above-mentioned estates were not completed by the date of
these annual accounts. Notwithstanding that fact, the assets were incorporated
into the City Council's equity given that the risks and benefits inherent in ownership thereof had been conveyed and there was no rational uncertainty or possibility of the contract contract's rescission.
6.	Public land assets
6.1.	Financial year variations
6.2.	Financial year information
The most important investments in the financial year correspond to:
The period of useful life starts from the month following the one in which the
asset's operational status is registered with the system.
Extension, modernisation and improvement costs are added to the accounting value at their conclusion. These costs are depreciated for the remaining years of depreciation of the main element.
The financial year 2017 saw no large-scale repairs or general inspections and no decommissioning of any asset or site restoration; no costs were capitalised for work carried out by the City Council for its immovable property.
7.	Property investments
7.1.	Financial year variations
7.2.	Financial year information
The period of useful life starts from the month following the one in which the asset's operational status is registered with the system.
Extension, modernisation and improvement costs are added to the accounting value at their
conclusion. These costs are depreciated for the remaining years of depreciation of the main element.
The financial year 2017 saw no large-scale repairs or general inspections and no decommissioning of
any asset or site restoration; no costs were capitalised for work carried out by the City Council for its
immovable property.
7.3.	Description of property investments
This includes buildings that bring in significant rent such as the Convention Centre, the Auditorium of
the Forum Building and the Forum Port, as well the building intended for the Ecopark - land site.
8.	Intangible fixed assets
8.1.	Financial year information
8.2.	Description of intangible fixed assets
The breakdown of the “other intangible fixed assets” item is as follows:
8.3.	Financial year information
At the close of the financial year, the acquisition cost of goods that were totally depreciated and remained in use came to €31,506,942.26.
8.4.	Circumstances that affect intangible fixed asset ownership
There is no restriction on the ownership of the goods that make up the City Council's intangible fixed assets and none of these assets is subject to litigation or has been pledged as a guarantee for debt payments.
9.	Financial leases and other similar transactions
The City Council does not hold any assets under a financial lease.
10.	Financial assets
10.1.	Information on the balance sheet
a)	Reconciliation statement summary between the balance sheet classification of financial assets and the categories established in the 8th regulation on recognising and valuing financial assets:
Breakdown of long-term investments in entities of the group, multi-group and associates are as follows:
Financial assets available for sale refer to the City Council's shareholding in
the companies Nauta Tech Invest III, SCR and Port Forum Sant Adrià, SL for €2,910,928.72 and €12,822.99 respectively and other shareholdings for €599.02.
b)	Reclassifications.
The City Council did not reclassify any financial asset over the financial year which required a change in valuation, whether in depreciated cost at fair value or the reverse.
c)	Financial assets delivered under guarantee.
The City Council did not deliver or keep any financial asset under guarantee of debt payments during or at the close of the financial year.
d)	Adjustments for impaired value
The value reductions due to deterioration correspond to Fira 2000, SA (€50,887,655.50) and Barcelona Emprén CR, SA, (€336,588.40).
10.2.	Information on the Income and Expenditure Account
a)	Net results obtained in the financial year from the various categories of financial assets.
The net results obtained for financial assets classed under the category of credit and accounts payable meant an addition to the Profit and Loss Account of
€2,448,645.04.
b)	Financial income calculated by applying the effective interest rate method.
The Income and Expenditure Account for the year does not contain financial income calculated this way.
10.3.1.	Information on exchange rate and interest rate risks
a)	Exchange rate risks.
The City Council has no investments and does not keep significant receivables in any currency other than the euro and therefore has no risks of this kind.
b)	Interest rate risks.
The City Council does not keep financial assets valued at depreciated cost, so it has no risks of this nature.
10.4.	Other information
a) Regular credit operations
The long-term balance at the close of the financial year for payment yet to be received in the City Council's usual transactions, “receivables and other accounts receivable”, corresponds to deferred tax payments and instalments.
The short-term balance for usual transactions, “receivables and other accounts receivable” is broken down below:
Amounts and variations in the Credit Impairment Losses Account were as follows:
The application for writing-off the rights or collections of the financial year, amounting to €40,943,550.78, has been charged to the income and expenditure account, while the rest, which amounts to €60,623,106.54, has been charged to net equity, as it corresponds to writing-off closed budgets rights due to the cancellation of the settlements for which it was recognised.
b) Cash and other liquid assets.
The balance under this item at the close of the financial year has a total of 76 bank accounts presenting the following overall movements:
The balances as of 31 December include balances that appeared on that date as temporary financial investments.
c)	Investment policy
As for temporary liquidity surpluses, the conditions for implementing Barcelona City Council's budget establish that they may be capitalised through investments that meet the conditions for liquidity and security provided for under Royal Decree
2/2004 TRLRHL.
11.	Financial liabilities
11.1.	Position of and movements in debts with credit institutions
a) Breakdown of debt maintained by the City Council at the close of the financial year and valued at depreciation cost
b) Breakdown of debt maintained by the City Council at fair value at the close of the financial year
The City Council does not maintain financial liabilities at fair value on its balance sheet and did not record transactions during the financial year that had to be entered in the accounts at fair value.
c)	Summary by category
11.2.	Credit lines
During the financial year, the City Council did not take out any credit lines nor were any debts maintained for transactions of this kind on the closing date.
11.3.	Information on exchange rate and interest rate risks
a) Exchange rate risks.
The City Council has no debt in currency other than the euro and therefore has no risks of this kind.
b) Interest rate risks.
The classification of the debt as of 31 December 2017 according to interest rate risk is as follows:
11.4.	Endorsements and other guarantees granted
a) Endorsements granted
The City Council did not grant any endorsements in favour of third parties during the financial year nor did it maintain any third-party endorsements on the closing date.
b) Endorsements implemented
For the reason stated in section (a) above, no endorsements were implemented that the City Council was responsible for.
c)	Endorsements repaid
By not maintaining any endorsements on behalf of third parties and not having endorsed third-party debts in previous financial years, no endorsements were repaid in favour of the City Council during the financial year.
11.5.	Other information on debts with credit institutions
The average cost of debt during the 2017 financial year was 2.11%, and the average life as of 31 December 2017 was 6.8 years.
The debt profile by maturity date as of 31 December 2017 is broken down below:
The City Council does not have any debts secured with collateral.
11.6.	Other information relating to other debts
a) Breakdown of debt maintained by the City Council at the close of the financial year and valued at depreciation cost
The total amount for the final negative settlement of the share in Spanish Central Government taxes corresponding to the 2008 financial year came to €93,487,000, whereas the figure for the 2009 financial year was also negative by €304,284,000. In accordance with the provisions set down in Act 2/2012 of 29 June, on General State Budgets for the year 2012, the term up to December 2014 for offsetting these negative settlements was 120 monthly instalments.
The sole additional provision in Royal Decree Act 12/2014 of 12 September, established amendments to the procedure for paying receivables to the Public Treasury arising from final settlements of shares in Spanish Central Government taxes for the financial years 2008 and 2009, as regulated by Act 2/2012 of 29 June, on the State's budgets for the year 2012, and allowed, as at January 2015 and subject to authorisation, extensions to the terms for paying the above-mentioned receivables in 120 additional monthly instalments. The negative settlement for 2008 matures during the 2011-2031 period while the negative settlement for 2009 matures during the 2012-2031 period. The amount maturing in the 2018 financial year is entered in the accounts under the “Other short-term debts” item.
b) Breakdown of debt maintained by the City Council at fair value at the close of the financial year
The City Council does not maintain financial liabilities at fair value on its balance sheet and did not record transactions during the financial year that had to be entered in the accounts at fair value.
c)	Summary by category
11.7.	Other information relating to debt with entities of the group, multigroup and associates
Short-term debts with entities of the group, multi-group and associates are broken down below:
11.8.	Short-term creditors and other accounts payable
The balance under this item is detailed below:
11.9.	Information on the average payment period to suppliers: Third Additional Provision, “Duty to supply information” of Act 15/2010 of 5 July
The following information is provided with regard to the provisions in Act 15/2010 of 5 July, on measures against arrears in commercial transactions, and to the obligations of contracts entered into on 31 December 2017:
The City Council did not default on any of its incurred debts, keeping to the payment deadlines in accordance with the applicable regulations.
12.	Accounting hedges
Barcelona City Council has a current accounting hedge worth a total of €60,000,000 as of 31 December 2017. This accounting hedge corresponds to a financial interest rate swap under contract to offset variations in the cash flows of the hedged item, given the interest rate risk it is effectively exposed to. The hedged item corresponds to a Schuldschein loan of €60M
More specifically, the details of the accounting hedge valid as of 31/12/2017 are as follows:
Given that the requirements established by the IMNCL were met, the interest rate hedge instrument that Barcelona City Council kept current as at 31 December 2017 is valued under the same criterion as the hedged item: value at depreciated cost. In that sense, the ledger value of the hedge at the start and close of the 2017 financial years is €60M.
13.	Assets constructed or acquired for other entities and other inventories
No transactions of this nature took place during the financial year nor were settlements derived from such transactions kept on the balance sheet on the closing date.
14.	Foreign currency
At the close of the 2017 financial year, the City Council had two current accounts in US dollars, with a balance of $18,000 and €34,000. Their corresponding value on the books as of 31 December 2017 was €15,008.75 and €28,349.87 respectively. The differences in recognised value in the financial year for this concept came to €5,972.55.
15.	Transfers, subsidies and other income and expenditure
15.1.	Transfers and subsidies received
15.2.	Expenditure
a) Transfers and subsidies granted
No repayments were made owing to breach of conditions or requirements for using the subsidies.
b) Provisions and services
16.	Provisions and contingencies
The breakdown of variations during the financial year in the provisions recognised on the liabilities' side of the balance sheet, both short- and long-term, was as follows:
The settlement of the provision is aimed at covering the financial costs of contingent or probable obligations.
The value of the provisions recorded is the nominal value it is expected will be required in the future to settle the obligations. They have not been valued at their current value as the financial effect of discounting them is not significant.
a) Provision for consortium
This provision records the existing risk, according to the City Council's share, in the consortium that present a negative net equity in their annual accounts.
The implementation of this provision in the financial year 2017 for the amount of €5,854,531.50 reflects the fact that the profit and loss corresponding to six consortia enabled their net equity to be rebalanced.
b) Interest compliance TSJC judgement 632/2013
The City Council's compliance with judgement 632/2013 of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, in the financial year 2016, meant it was forced to increase civil servants' salaries for 2017 and 2018.
Judgement 528/2017 of 12 September 2017 upheld an appeal that recognised the
right to receive interest on the amounts paid by virtue of judgement 632/2013.
The City Council has applied for a judicial review but, given the possibility of it
not being admitted or of an unfavourable judgement, Human Resources have
estimated that complying with such a judgement would cost €10 million.
16.1.	Contingent liabilities.
Constitutional Court judgement (STC) 59/2017 of 11 May, declared unconstitutional and null and void articles 107.1, 107.2(a) and 110.4 of the Consolidated Text of the Local Tax Authorities Act (TRLRHL), approved by Royal Legislative Decree (RDL) 2/2004 of 5 March, inasmuch as they submit situations where there has been no increase in value to the tax on the increase in value of urban land.
The judgement itself states that “determining the existence or not of an increase
liable to taxation is something that corresponds solely to the legislator with
its freedom to shape legislation following the publication of this judgement,
implementing the pertinent modifications or adaptations to the legal framework
of the tax that make it possible to arbitrate instances in which taxation situations
where there is no increase in the value of urban land are not submitted”.
Despite the time that has elapsed since the aforementioned judgement was issued, it was only on 9 March 2018 that it entered the Congress of Deputies following the publication in the Official Gazette of the Spanish Parliament (BOCG) of a Bill to
modify the Consolidated Text of the Local Tax Authorities Act, approved by RDL
2/2004 of 5 March, and other tax regulations, in order to bring the text of local tax authority legislation in line with the Constitutional Court's pronouncement.
Given that no legislation had been passed when these annual accounts were drawn up, no provision has been recorded, as the amount cannot be reliably estimated until a valid text has been approved.
Likewise, at the close of the financial year, the City Council was in the middle of
legal proceedings, described as being at possible risk, at the courts and tribunals.
One case that should be mentioned is a claim under the heading of financial
liability which originated from an order to cease activity being carried out by a
company as it differed from the authorised activity.
There are three matters where there is a probable risk but it has not been possible to quantify the cost of the judgement in these cases. These matters relate to a works permit for the construction of two single-family dwellings and two works permits for the construction of two hotel establishments.
16.2.	Contingent assets.
At the close of the financial year, the City Council had no contingent assets
regarding which information must be given in the annual report.
17.	Information on the environment
The City Council recorded the following obligations charged to the programmes of expenditure policy 17 “Environment”:
18.	Assets under sale
On the closing date, the City Council did not keep fixed assets in the balance sheet where the accounting value thereof had to be recovered through sale.
19.	Presentation of the income and expenditure account by
activity
Barcelona City Council's Income and Expenditure Account, classed by activity, is as follows:
The following rules have been taken into account for its drafting:
a) Income: classification of total income in the categories of day-to-day
management income, financial and other income.
b) Expenditure: the budgetary expenses set out in chapters 1 to 5 of the City
Council's current expenditure budget, classed by expenditure policy. The other
expenses in the Income and Expenditure Account, distributed among the various expenditure policies in the proportion that each policy represents of the total expenditure budget.
20.	Resource administration receivables on behalf of other public bodies
The amount included in the assets side of the balance sheet refers to entitlements pending collection from third parties regarding the development of the resource administration management payable by other public bodies (Note 20.3 a).
The amount included in the liabilities side of the balance sheet is that from Note
20.3 a) - as these entitlements, still pending, will have to be delivered to the
organisation through which the administration is carried out - plus the balance
of the amounts already collected from third parties but pending delivery to the
organisation through which the administration is made, and reflected in Note 20.1.
20.1.	Management-derived debentures
20.2.	Public bodies, current cash accounts
The City Council does not use such accounts as cash deliveries are not made to the final settlement account.
20.3. Management development
a) Summary
b) Revoked collection rights
c) Cancelled collection rights
21.	Non-budgetary liquid asset transactions
Information is given below on the non-budgetary liquid asset transactions included in these transactions made over the financial year which led to the creation or extinction of:
• Receivables and liabilities under the current rules for the City Council that do not have to be allocated to its budget either at the time of their creation or maturity.
• Items representing collections and payments pending final application, for both budgetary and non-budgetary transactions.
21.1.	Non-budgetary receivables statement.
21.2.	Non-budgetary liabilities statement
21.3.	Statement of items pending application a) Collections pending application
b) Payments pending application
At the close of the financial year, the City Council had no payments pending application.
22.	Administrative procurement. Awarding procedures
The aggregate amounts of administrative procurement during the financial year, according to the awarding procedure, are shown below.
23.	Securities received on deposit
24.	Budget information
24.1.	Current financial year
24.1.1.	Expenditure budget a) Credit amendments
b) Credit surpluses
c)	Liabilities for transactions pending application to the budget
The City Council does not have any payable transactions yet to be applied to the budget.
24.1.2.	Income budget
a) Management process
a1) Revoked collection rights
a2) Revoked collection rights
a3) Net collection
b) Returned income
c) Committed income
24.2.	Closed financial years
24.2.1.	Expenditure budget Closed budget debentures
24.2.2.	Income budget. Entitlements pending collection from closed budgets a) Total entitlements pending collection
b) Revoked collection rights
c) Cancelled collection rights
24.2.3. Variation of results
24.3.	Subsequent financial years
24.3.1.	Committed expenditure charged to budgets of subsequent financial years
24.3.2.	Committed income charged to budgets of subsequent financial years
24.4.	Expenditure with allocated funding
24.5.	Treasury surplus
The treasury surplus statement resulting from the financial year budget settlement and those of previous financial years is as follows:
25.	Financial, equity and budget indicators
a) Financial and equity indicators
• Immediate liquidity:
Liquid funds
= 0.88
Current habilities
• Short-term liquidity:
Liquid funds + Entitlements pending collection
--------------------------------------------------= 1.61
Current liabilities
• General liquidity:
Current assets
= 1.10
Current liabilities
• Debt per resident:
Liabilities
----------------------= 1,480.51 euros
Number of residents
• Debt:
Liabilities
= 0.17
Liabilities + Net equity
• Debt ratio:
Current liabilities
= 0.65
Fixed liabilities
• Cash flow:
Liabilities
= 6.58
Net management flows
• Average payment period to commercial liabilities: 28.5 days.
• Average collection period: 26.9 days.
• Income and Expenditure Account ratios
• Income structure
• Expenditure structure
• Coverage of current expenses: highlights the existing relationship between day-to-day management expenditure and income.
Day to day management expenses
= 90.27%
Day to day management income
b) Budget indicators
For the current expenditure budget:
• Implementation of the expenditure budget:
Recognised net debentures
------------------------ = 96.58%
Final credits
• Payments made:
Payments made
------------------------ = 78.71%
Recognised net debentures
• Expenditure per resident:
Recognised net debetures
------------------------= 1,648.61 euros
Number of residents
• Investment per resident:
Recognised net debentures (Chapters 6 and 7)
------------------------------------------- = 260.74 euros
Number of residents
• Investment effort:
Recongised net debentures (Chapters 6 and 7)
------------------------------------------ = 15.82%
Total recognised net debentures
For the current income budget:
• Implementation of the income budget:
Net recognised collectin rights
= 97.86%
Final forecast
• Collection made:
Net collection
-----------------------------= 95.48%
Net recognised collection rights
• Autonomy:
Recognised net collection rights (Chapters 1 and 3, 5, 6, 8 + transfers received)
--------------------------------------------------------------------= 95.21%
All recognised net collection rights
• Tax autonomy:
Recognised net collection rights (Chapter 1 to 3)
--------------------------------------------- = 53.22%
All recognised net collection rights
• Surplus (deficit) per resident:
Adjusted budget result
---------------------= 17.65 euros
Number of residents
For closed budgets:
• Payments made:
Payments
--------------------------------------------------------- = 79.52%
Initial balance for debentures (± amendments and annulments)
• Collections made:
Collection
--------------------------------------------------------- = 20.21%
Initial balance for debentures (± amendments and annulments)
26.	Information on the costs of activities
The results provided in this and the following sections supplement the information on the cost of activities and management indicators established in Order HAP/1781/2013, the guidelines for the usual model of public accounting in the sense of at least presenting by services and activities financed by public taxes and charges.
With regard to these amounts, it should be pointed out that they are a selection of the results from the Barcelona City Council cost model, based on the ABC (Activity Based Costing) model, in which only those activities/tasks financed by public taxes
or charges have been considered.
General summary of city council costs
COST SUMMARY PER ITEM OF ACTIVITY
Cultural and outreach activities: Courses and workshops
Cultural and outreach activities: Renting and use of premises
Training activities: Courses and workshops
Urban planning activities: Subsidiary implementation files
Urban planning activities: Urban planning files and reports
Urban planning activities: Processing major works permits
Actions: Fountains
Animals: Protection and control of animals: Barcelona Pet Shelter (CAACB)
Advice and Training: External training for fire-fighters
Cost summary per activity
Summary relating activity costs and income from activity
27.	Management indicators
As pointed out in note 26, only those indicators that refer to services and activities financed with taxes and public charges are shown.
Likewise, it should be noted that systems and procedures are currently being adapted that will enable us to define all the economic, efficiency and effectiveness indicators set out in the current Guidelines.
Urban planning activities: Subsidiary implementation files
€ 751,033.06
= € 11,554.35 / file
65 files
Urban planning activities: Urban planning files and reports
€ 1,272,960.47
= € 897.08 / file
1,419 files s
Urban planning activities: Processing major works licences
€ 1,732,938.19
= € 1,245.82 / license
1,391 licenses
Advice and Training: External training for fire-fighters
€ 132,544.50
-------------------= € 152.00 / student
872 students
Family and children: Activities and coordination of children's centres, youth centres and toy libraries
€ 5,234,531.56
--------------------------- = € 03.23 / city inhabitant
1,620,809 city inhabitants
Family and children: Promoting childhood and adolescence
€ 506,933.48
----------------------------------------= € 580.02 / child or adolescent
s874 children and adolescents attended tos
Senior citizens: Activities and coordination of municipal senior citizen centres and spaces
€ 7,680,875.79
= € 144,922.18 / centre
53 centres
Youth: Activities and coordination of youth centres and Youth Information Points (PIJ)
€ 4,257,129.49
= € 152,040.34 / centre
28 centre
Public highway licences: Inspections of activities in public areas
€ 5,798,434.06
= € 224.34 / inspection
25,847 inspections
Public highway licences: Minor construction work licences
€ 1,506,596.41
------------------= € 32.91 / licence
45,778 licences
Public highway licences: Licences for commercial occupancy of pavements and public spaces
€ 1,852,765.01
= € 76.07 / licence
24,356 licences
Waste collection and management: Green points for waste treatment and selection (TERSA)
€ 4,803,381.26
------------------------------ = € 285.42 / tonne collected
16,829 tonnes collected
Waste collection and management: Old furniture and junk collection
€ 12,351,999.77
--------------------------------------------= € 353.87 / tonne of furniture and junk
34,905 tonnes of furniture and pieces of junks
Waste collection and management: Domestic waste collection
€ 67,228,768.13
---------------------------= € 41.48 / city inhabitant
1,620,809 city inhabitants
Waste collection and management: Commercial waste
€ 17,010,141.91
----------------------------------= € 316.41 / tonne commercial waste
53,760 tonnes commercial waste
Waste collection and management: Municipal market waste
€ 3,178,507.17
-----------------------= € 255.73 / tonne collected
12,429 tonnes collected
District procedures: Activity licences
€ 1,639,375.34
--------------= € 6,117.07 / revision
268 revisions
28.	Events subsequent to accounts closure
No significant events occurred between closure and drafting of the annual accounts which would require reporting or lead to the inclusion of adjustments to the figures contained in the annual accounts.
29.	Other information
a) Accrued liabilities expenditure
The long-term variations in the accrued liabilities expenditure item for the 2017 financial year were as follows:
The balance on 31 December 2017 corresponds to income received in advance for the right to use municipally owned assets. Income received in advance is transferred every year to the Profit and Loss Account using the straight-line method for the duration of the period of the corresponding concession, which will end, at the latest, by 2092.
Short-term accrued expenditure for the 2017 financial year presents the following variations:
b) Auditors' fees
The fees to be received by Ernst & Young, SL, corresponding to the audit services and expenditure incurred in the provision of these services during the 2017 financial year amounted to €120,000, VAT included. Invoiced to Barcelona City Council under the audit contract's invitation-to-tender lot 1 file, these fees also included the audit work of the consolidated annual accounts of the Barcelona City Council group, quality control and coordination of the work and support for the General Intervention in exercising financial control over fifteen grants and subsidies.
c)	Taxes and social security contributions subject to inspection
All taxes and social security contributions that the City Council is subject to are eligible for auditing for all the financial years during which the limitation period deadline established under the legislation in force has not lapsed. No additional liabilities that merit consideration are expected for the City Council as a result of possible inspections.
The Chief Executive of Barcelona City Council, on 23 May 2018, acting in compliance with the requirements established by Article 64 of Act 1/2006 regulating the special system for Barcelona, hereby draws up the consolidated annual accounts in this document, pages 1 to 84, corresponding to the financial
year ending 31 December 2017.
The Municipal Chief Executive